### When does clean code become unclean?

E.g. Testing: You can temporarily speed up without writing tests for new features, but this will gradually slow your progress every day until you eventually pay off the debt by writing tests.

### Causes
There can be different causes for technical debt.

#### Business pressure
Biz circumstances, rolling out features before they're complete. This causes patches and kludges, which are used to hide ==unfinished parts of the project.==

#### Lack of understanding of the consequences of technical debt
Biz might not understand that technical debt accumulates. Therefore, the team does not dedicate enough time.

#### Failing to combat the strict coherence of components
Monolith rather than the product of individual modules. Any change to one part will affect others. Lack of team based separation/responsibility.

#### Lack of tests
Lack of tests...

#### Lack of documentation
Slow rampup. `Conocimiento repartido entre pocos`

#### Lack of interaction between team members
`Conocimiento repartido entre pocos`

#### Long-term simultaneous development in several branches
This can lead to the accumulation of technical debt, which is then increased when changes are merged. The more changes made in isolation, the greater the total technical debt.

#### Delayed refactoring
When Project requirement ==change constantly==, at some point some part will ==become obsolete and a redesign== will be needed ==to meet new requirements==.

#### Lack of compliance monitoring
Lack of standardisation when writing code.

#### Incompetence
Developers don't know how to write decent code.
